[Autogenerated] in this clip will look at connecting to WiFi.
Now we live in a mobile world.
We move around a lot,
and we expect our devices to be able to connect to the Internet.
We want to check those Facebook updates.
We want to see our email.
We want a stream video.
So connecting to WiFi is a pretty essential task when using a mobile device,
you understand makes it pretty easy to connect to WiFi.
It's a pretty straightforward process, however.
There are some settings and some features you should
be aware of when using my fight.
My default in the notification area,
you'll see an icon which lets you know the status of your network connections.
The appearance of the icon itself can change to pay on what you're connected to.
Currently,
my devices connected to a network using an Ethernet cable Ah WiFi
connection would have a different appearance here.
And if there were some limitations or issues with my connection,
I would also be able to see that visually,
right here on my network, I can.
In this case, the icon tells me that I have an Internet connection.
If I hover over the icon, I can see.
This is confirmed by the message that appears here.
I will mention here that Microsoft has been testing some
new icons for network connections.
So in the future, you may see different icons altogether.
But this same technique of hovering over the icon will let you
know both the type of connection you have.
And it will let you know if you're only connected to a local network or
if you're actually connected out to the Internet.
Since we're focused on WiFi in this clip,
I'm going to lose my Ethernet connection and watch what happens.
Unfortunately,
this device is able to roll over to a known WiFi connection pretty quickly.
The current icon indicates a WiFi connection,
and hovering over it again confirms an active Internet connection.
An exclamation point over the connection would usually alert me
visually to a connection that doesn't have Internet.
Although sometimes in practice, this device may not right away,
see that my Roeder has lost an Internet connection.
So sometimes the icon may not indicate right away the
actual state of your connection.
If I select the network icon, it'll actually show me more information here.
I can see the current active connections up here at the top says,
I'm connected, and it indicates that my connection is secured below this.
I can see any other WiFi networks that are within range and notice.
The additional information is showing about them as well.
But secured WiFi network means that a password or some other
means of authentication is required to connect to that
network networks that are unsecured.
We usually have some indication using exclamation Point to alert you to the
potential risk of connecting to an unsecured network.
These are the types of network she'll commonly see in public areas,
coffee shops or hotels.
But even when a business has a secure network and
they require passwords connected,
why did you remember that their public networks,
essentially you're potentially connected to other devices on that network
that are being operated by people you don't know so well,
we'll talk about that again in the future.
Signal strength is also indicated by the icon itself.
The closer you are to an access point, the stronger the signal will appear,
and the more stable your connection.
Connecting to a WiFi network for the first time is again rather straightforward,
from the available traces that are in range.
I can select a network.
As you can see here, you can expect to see a button to connect,
but also a check box to connect automatically.
Leaving this box checked will tell your device to just
automatically connect in the future when you're in range at
your office or visiting a friend's home.
That would be places where this would be a good idea to leave a check.
Sometimes I don't want my device automatically connecting to certain networks.
There could be security reasons,
but it could also have to do with bandwidth or other
devices and in particular network.
You may want to connect to a smart TV to stream
content from your Windows 10 device, for example,
or connect to a WiFi printer.
Now you need to be on the same WiFi network to work with those types of devices.
So when multiple networks are available,
connecting automatically should be used accordingly.
After selecting connect,
you device will query the network to see what's required here.
I'm asked to provide a network security key,
which is just simply another way of saying it wants a password notice.
It also says I can push the button and the rotor.
WiFi rotors often have a W.
P S button, which stands for wireless protected.
Set up the GPS button lets the broader know you're trying to connect the device,
and it will send out a signal inviting a connection for
several seconds after the button's been pushed.
Generally,
there is a pin number provided by the road er that you can type in
your device when it's negotiating the connection.
Although there are variations in the way W.
P s is employed on different Rogers and devices once connected,
the two devices will remember each other in the future.
For this connection, I have a password, but I need to take them now.
WiFi passwords are case sensitive password Security itself
could have multiple levels to encrypt data moving between
your device and the router, and we'll look at security closer and other clips.
But generally you're only gonna be prompted to supply the password.
The device in the rod or no, the other settings that expected,
and it's really simplifies WiFi connections with Windows 10.
If you do have trouble connecting and the password you're using is correct,
he's the first check with whoever manages that WiFi network,
they may have some particular settings enable,
and they would likely be familiar with whatever problems you're
having connecting to that particular network.
Here.
I'm all set, so I'm gonna select next,
and my device will send the password to the rotor for verification.
Not once has accepted.
I'll be connected.
Usually, we'll also see a prompt asking you to identify the network type.
Is it a public or is it a work or home an hour?
Now?
This is really related to security.
If you select home or work,
your device will allow connections from other devices,
and those other devices will see your device that it's connected to the network.
If they look,
this makes it possible to connect two devices like printers and to share
files between devices that are on the same network.
You know, if you're connected to a network at a coffee house or hotel,
you should select public.
The device will be invisible,
and Windows will not accept connections from other devices on that network.
Now, if I select my network,
I kind here I can see that I'm connected to this new WiFi network,
selecting the networking Internet settings link down here opens up
the settings that I can see links and information about my
connection currently reminisce like WiFi over here to jump right to
our sightings for WiFi connections.
Again, I see the current WiFi connection here it shows connected and secured.
And from here,
I can actually select that connection to manage some additional details.
If you recall the check box from earlier to connect automatically here,
we can enable that same setting with a switch.
We can have it enabled or disabled.
There's also an option here for random hardware dresses.
Now, we're gonna look closer at this feature in a separate clip.
But for now, I would recommend you just leave this unchanged.
We're also gonna look at the sitting below metered connections in another clip.
It's really known to the bottom.
I can actually see details about my current WiFi connection,
the network name or S S I.
D security settings.
The I P address of my device and other details are all here.
This could be useful information.
If you ever troubleshooting issues and you're asked for some of these details,
you can even select copy and paste all of this into an email
and send it to whoever is helping you.
I'm gonna like the back girl and I'm gonna select manage known networks.
This is where I can manage what my device knows about wireless networks.
I can manually put information here about a wireless
network by selecting add a noon hour.
Now, it's rare that you would actually need to ever do this,
But there are times especially for increased security.
When a WiFi network is left invisible,
it won't appear as an available network you can connect to.
But if you have the right information saved to your device,
you can actually connect to a network like that blew this.
You're gonna see all the networks that your device knows,
and this could be a rather long list.
By default, your device will connect to any of these save networks.
The next time they're in range,
you may no longer want your device to connect to certain WiFi networks.
Or it could be that the network itself has changed and the remembered
information just keeps failing to connect in those cases,
select any of these networks,
you can either look at the settings and make changes
to its properties for that network.
Or you can select Forget the next time you have eye sees that network.
It'll prompt you for a password.
It won't recall any of the previous information it had about that hour.
It looks like we've looked at connecting to WiFi. Thank you for watching and then forward to seeing you in the next clip.